Well, it's not an issue. I was just curious. No, I
don't really see it as being one. I mean, there's
never been a problem with anyone pointing out to
me, and I don't see the resonance as, you know,
starting an uprising. I just don't see it that way.
Okay, that's fine.
You may not even have a feel for this. When you were
mentioning earlier about the early days, and that
you were going around in these almost one-on-one
educational... This is something that came to me
in my talk with Mr. Welles.
Do you think that because of the environment
created here in the woodlands, that the
woodlands, this may seem obvious, but does the
woodlands preselect for a certain type of
personality, a certain type of personality?
Someone with a built-in set of values.
What I'm getting at is, obviously, people from
Winslow, Arizona,
who've been born and raised in Winslow, Arizona,
may not share our affinity for trees, you know,
because they have a different life experience.
is part of the success of the Woodlands in that Mr.
Mitchell, in his vision, has identified a
set of values that appeal to a stratum or a type of
personality or a type of actor that is different
from, say, the person who moves to Kingwood or to
any other surrounding. development, which is
more consonant with things that are going on, you
know, from west coast to east coast to anywhere. Do
you understand what I'm asking? I think that I
don't think you can just zero in on one individual
aspect. I think it's everything that's going on in
and around the woodlands has created a market. I
think it's, you know, It's the school system. It's
the hearty toll road. It's the community spirit
kind of thing. But to zero in even more, I mean, once
you realize that, hey, I've got all of these
qualities, these things that I can't get, I think
as a whole that all of us are probably more at peace
with our inner self when we're in nature and close
to nature. I just think that's a quality that we all
have. Those that believe in God feel closer to God
when they're walking in the woods. For families,
they like to go to nature. They like to go to parks.
They like to go to trees. And I just think it's, I
think that aspect of what the Woodlands is all
about is a strong, it's a strong card. But I think
you can't just have a block of woods and expect
everyone to move there. It's got to be easy to get
there. It's got to be a quality of life. It's got to
be a satisfaction that no one's going to be able to
dump right next door to me. It's that planned
community. So the package deal. The whole is more
important than some of this. I think so. But I think
the draw of the nature aspect of it is a real strong
draw. Okay, I appreciate that. The last question I
think you've probably already answered. and if
there's something I should be asking you and I
haven't because I'm not smart enough to figure it
out.
Could you comment a little bit on the future of the
woodlands as you see it environmentally? Do you
see, are there some things that keep you awake at
night, that might keep you awake at night?
No. I think, certainly not keeping me awake, I
don't think we know the outcome yet of what it's
going to be on the wetlands issue. It's a real big
issue. What's that? I'm not familiar with that.
I'm not that familiar with it myself, but it's...
The definition of what is a wetlands and how that
affects development in the wetlands? Exactly.
President Bush made a statement and he's
enforcing it through the Corps of Engineers and
Fish and Wildlife that there be no no net loss of
those areas that are classified as wetlands. And
within a classification of wetlands, there's
true wetlands that are wet, and there's things
that are high and dry and growing pine trees that,
because it has gray mottlings in the soil or
something, may be classified as a wetland also. So
I'm not sure what that issue, how that's going to
play out in the future development the next 10 or 15
years down the road. interpreted strictly as I
understand it today, all developers are going to
have a hard time finding
lands that are not classified as wetlands in large
enough blocks that it's going to be very expensive
to develop. I think it's a big issue.
I think,
to me, the future of the woodlands is brighter than
it's ever been. I just, so many things, many
positive things are happening. But I just think
the good times are, it's going to get better. We're
just now beginning to see that the wilderness is
getting large enough that it's going to
perpetuate within itself more jobs and a better
quality of living. It's going to make it even more
attractive for more people to move here. So it's
going to be, I would say, as long as it the economy,
whatever that is, allows it to, it's going to
continue to grow at the rate that it has in the last
few years. I feel that. I'm certainly not
qualified to make that statement. It's just a
reaction. Well, you've answered the question.
You're not worried about anything. The wetlands
is an issue. You know, I sleep well at night, and I
love my job, and I enjoy getting up and coming to
the... I probably have the only job that's that
great. Well, one of the advantages of your job is it
gets done from time to time. You can complete
something, and you can come back off and take a look
at it. You can drive around and see, you know, some
of the tasks around here are never-ending. And we
get lots of strokes, you know. Yeah. Everyone
likes to be involved in something that, you take
something that's unsightly, it's a construction
site, and you turn it into something that everyone
appreciates.
And they let you know about it, so it's a good
feeling. In the absence, something else just
occurred to me as you were talking, in the absence
of...
this codified environmental plan that we were
mentioning earlier.
George Mitchell is 72.
The end of the woodlands is scheduled for sometime
in 2020, 2030.
Unless Mr. Mitchell is more extraordinary than I
think he is, he probably won't be around to see
the end of the book. He's very extraordinary. Go
ahead. What I'm getting at, I guess, is when he
should exit the scene for whatever reasons, what
will happen to the book? Will it march on the same?
Is the infrastructure such that it's got built-in
resiliency? Or will some change unspecified
occur? You know, what I'm trying to say is every
corporation has its own culture. The Woodlands
Corporation and Mitchell Energy and Development
is very much the child of George Mitchell. I mean,
his personality permeates everything that goes
on around here. At least that's my sense of what's
going on. When that personality leaves the scene,
what's going to happen? It's going to be
different. Well, I wish I had asked that question.
I've thought about that often, and I think a lot of
people have. But I think it's something I don't
think anyone can answer that until we know more
about who the players are going to be when he's not
here. He doesn't have a strong influence on the
women to this point. I think that's a good question
and I hope we're around to see. Things may change.
One of my fears is that, that we won't be able to
maintain the character of Horace. We might not be
able to maintain as I see it, as I feel it needs to be.
Because without his influence, we might be weak.
That's why I wondered, you know, when you
mentioned, or that was actually the, why I asked
that question is, if what you're doing is based in
part upon folklore, you know, this is the way we've
always done it, kind of thing, then what happens
when, you know, you get hit by a truck or whatever
happens, how does it continue on? Who knows what's
going on? Where's the, you know, the
institutional memory that's going to march on
without the prison players? Is there a
constitution and bylaws
and, you know, and are the values, in fact, you
know, written down, carved in stone, whatever, so
that others... I think there are somewhat. I think
we'll always save the trees and the woodlands
because that's the way development criteria has
messed it up. I mean, you legally cannot clear a
tree off of your lot. Well, and the very name says
that, too. I mean, yeah. It's not very subtle.
Unless, let me finish, if it's under four inches or
six inches. I mean, if it's over four or six inches.
If it's under that, then it's debatable whether
you can or not. So that's where all the... That's
where all the tension is. That's where all the
tension is, and that's where the debate is, and
that's where the brush is. Some of us want to clear
it all out, and some of us want to save it. That would
be the only change, I think, after he's gone. I
think the people that live here would be, they
would, I think... rise to the occasion and battle
the developer to whatever extent they could they
tried to go the other way because of their concept
of what the williams is all about because of their
investment that they have here and a commitment to
it i think it will so i i think it will it'll continue
on maybe modify it somewhat to have a little bit
more of a manicured look to it Okay. I don't want to
take all your time, but I really appreciated your
willingness to share your thoughts with me. Is
there something I should have asked? I think you
did a good job. I'm not looking for a grade. I'm just
trying to get the information down that ought to be
down. No, I think we've covered everything. I
can't think of anything we've left out. Well,
good. I appreciate it. Okay.